Documentation &raquo; Features.md

---

# Features

- **Most data objects have have dates on them indicating when the were created.** Just to experiment, the user table has a column for that which will should automatically create a timestamp. Assume this date is also when the `user_profile` and `user_settings` were created.
- **Boolean to indicate user completed data verification**. You know that part in the sign-up process where you are asked to go to your e-mail and verify your account creation?  This is set to `TRUE` when the user does that.
  - This may require a `PUT` route to `UPDATE` our request.
- **Age Requirement** - Age has its benefits! Anyone 18 and older has access to the full library. Children under 13 need to get permission from their parents/guardians to create an account.
  - This should probably be set during the setup process.
- **Families** - Creating a family account requires that the parent/guardian create accounts for their children. To establish this, the head of household will need to create accounts for their children. Each child will have an age restriction setting based on their age in their own user profile, but it can be set by their parents.
- **Age restrictions**. If the parents who have problems with books haven't figured it out yet, there *is* a book rating system based on age.  I had like a long explanation for why we have this, but I figure it would have been accused of being "too political" despite the fact that most of these "Culture War" issues are sectarian issues shielding behind politics to avoid any discourse. Let's leave it at that.
  - It should be noted that kids do eventually grow up. And that age restrictions are based on how old the user is.  So if you happen to have a 8 year old turning 9 next year, and you still don't want them to read *Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret* by Judy Blume (which Amazon lists the reading age for this book to be between 9 and 12 years old), the least the parent can do is set the age restrictions to "12+".
- **Account Emancipation** - Every year we hear that story about how "Netflix is going to punish users who don't live in the same house for sharing accounts", but we never see them show us how to separate accounts.  It sort of like how you're still using your parents Netflix account but don't live with them any more. (Or if you are a Millennial or Gen-Zer, how you've probably moved out of your parents house but they are still using your Netflix account. 😆 )  This threat of punishment is probably why people are leaving Netflix, unaware that other streaming services also don't have a solution for this, but at least they don't publicly state "If you don't get your own account, we'll fine you!" (At least not yet. (We're looking at you, Disney+!)) To fix this problem, there should be plans to create an "account emancipation" option.  We should probably call it that since some children actually have to go to court to file for emancipation sometimes so their parents don't have legal custody over them.  Similarly, Family accounts should have this option too after a user turns a specific age, so that their parents don't keep restricting their book access at an age where they are actually mature enough to read specific books.  I would suggest enabling this option for anyone over the age of 13 (or 16 at most) so that young users of a certain age, who were added by their parents when they were younger, are able to have autonomy over what books they can read.  Obviously, this won't give children unfettered access to objectionable material. (That restriction would likely be lifted after they turn 18.)

For more information on the Age Restriction system, see [this document](age_limits.md)